native docs for guides/api-graphql/subscriptions-by-id (#2465)
aws-amplify/docs: docs/guides/api-graphql/fragments/android/subscriptions-by-id.md

Now you can create a custom subscription for comment creation with a specific post id:

<amplify-block-switcher>
<amplify-block name="Java">

```java
private GraphQLRequest<Comment> onCreateCommentByPostId(String id) {
    String document = "subscription onCreateCommentByPostId($id: ID!) { "
        + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: $id) { "
            + "content "
            + "id "
            + "postCommentsId "
        + "}"
    + "}";

>     return new SimpleGraphQLRequest<>(
>             document,
>             Collections.singletonMap("id", id),
>             Comment.class,
>             new GsonVariablesSerializer());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return new SimpleGraphQLRequest<>(
        document,
        Collections.singletonMap("id", id),
        Comment.class,
        new GsonVariablesSerializer()
    );
```

}
```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="Kotlin">

```kotlin
private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment?>? {
    val document = ("subscription onCreateCommentByPostId(\$id: ID!) { "
        + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: \$id) { "
            + "content "
            + "id "
            + "postCommentsId "
        + "}"
    + "}")
    return SimpleGraphQLRequest(
            document,

>             Collections.singletonMap("id", id),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            mapOf("id", id),
```

> private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment?>? {
>     val document = ("subscription onCreateCommentByPostId(\$id: ID!) { "
>         + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: \$id) { "
>             + "content "
>             + "id "
>             + "postCommentsId "
>         + "}"
>     + "}")
>     return SimpleGraphQLRequest(
>             document,
>             mapOf("id", id),
>             Comment::class.java,
>             GsonVariablesSerializer())
> }

Reviewer: Suggest three tweaks:
1. Use +4 indentation instead of +8, to help maximize use of constrained view ports.
2. `mapOf` had syntax error, should be `mapOf("id" to id)`
3. Use a `"""` multi-line comment for the GraphQL document, and `${'$'}` as the escape sequence for a literal `$` character.

Question: can we remove either (or both) of the `?` in `GraphQLRequest<Comment?>?` ?
```suggestion
private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment?>? {
    val document = """
        subscription onCreateCommentByPostId(${'$'}id: ID!) {
            onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: ${'$'}id) {
                content
                id
                postCommentsId
            }
         }
    """.trimIndent()
    return SimpleGraphQLRequest(
        document,
        mapOf("id" to id),
        Comment::class.java,
        GsonVariablesSerializer()
    )
}
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the suggestions!   TBH, I didn't do much more than what the Kotlin auto converter did for me :). Multi-line string literals are great though.  It really makes me want to use Kotlin more. 

I just removed the two `?` as well, so now the return type is `GraphQLRequest<Comment>`.  The question marks should only be needed if the return type might be null, which it won't be.

```

</amplify-block>
</amplify-block-switcher>

To listen to creation updates with the specific post using the post id, you can use the following code sample:

<amplify-block-switcher>
<amplify-block name="Java">

```java

> private void createSubscription() {
>     Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"),
>             subscriptionId -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription with id: " + subscriptionId), 
>             response -> {
>                 if(response.hasErrors()) {
>                     Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.getErrors());
>                 } else if(!response.hasData()) {
>                     Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment, no data in response.");
>                 } else {
>                     Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Successfully got comment from subscription: " + response.getData());
>                 }
>             }, 
>             exception -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription terminated with error: " + exception), 
>             () -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription has been closed successfully."));
> }

Reviewer: Minor tweaks to formatting:

```suggestion
private void createSubscription() {
    Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"),
        subscriptionId -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription with id: " + subscriptionId),
        response -> {
            if (response.hasErrors()) {
                Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.getErrors());
            } else if(!response.hasData()) {
                Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment; no data in response.");
            } else {
                Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Got comment from subscription: " + response.getData());
            }
        },
        failure -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription terminated with error.", failure),
        () -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription has been closed successfully.")
    );
}
```

```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="Kotlin">

```kotlin

> private fun createSubscription() {
>     Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345")!!,
>             { subscriptionId: String -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription with id: $subscriptionId") },
>             { response: GraphQLResponse<Comment?> ->
>                 if (response.hasErrors()) {
>                     Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.errors)
>                 } else if (!response.hasData()) {
>                     Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment, no data in response.")
>                 } else {
>                     Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Successfully got comment from subscription: " + response.data)
>                 }
>             },
>             { exception: ApiException -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription terminated with error: $exception") }
>     ) { Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription has been closed successfully.") }
> }

Reviewer: Suggest a few changes:
1. Various strategies to reduce line lengths, to optimize for a broad range of (possibly constrained) viewports:
    1. Use the `$it` and `it` shorthand for lambda arguments
    2. Reduce verbosity of log messages
    3. Use +4 indentation instead of +8
2. Bring the outer closure into the call. Having it out-fixed makes it look special in some way. But really, it is more like the other closures and having them behave the same reaffirms their logical grouping.

Open question -- can we get rid of the `!!` and the `?` on the `Comment?` ?
```suggestion
private fun createSubscription() {
    Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345")!!,
        { Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription. id = $it") },
        { response: GraphQLResponse<Comment?> ->
            if (response.hasErrors()) {
                Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.errors)
            } else if (!response.hasData()) {
                Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment; no data in response.")
            } else {
                Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Got comment on subscription: " + response.data)
            }
        },
        { Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription terminated with error.", it) },
        { Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription has been closed successfully.") }
    )
}
```

Reviewer 2: > Open question -- can we get rid of the `!!` and the `?` on the `Comment?` ?

Yep, done!

```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="RxJava">

```java
private void createSubscription() {

>     RxOperations.RxSubscriptionOperation<? extends GraphQLResponse<Comment>> subscription =
>             RxAmplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"));
> 
>     subscription
>             .observeConnectionState()
>             .subscribe(connectionStateEvent -> Log.i("MyAmplifyApp", String.valueOf(connectionStateEvent)));
> 
>     subscription
>             .observeSubscriptionData()
>             .subscribe(
>                     response -> {
>                         if (response.hasErrors()) {
>                             Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.getErrors());
>                         } else if (!response.hasData()) {
>                             Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment, no data in response.");
>                         } else {
>                             Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Successfully got comment from subscription: " + response.getData());
>                         }
>                     },
>                     exception -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription failed.", exception),
>                     () -> Log.i("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription completed.")
>             );
> 
>     // Cancel the subscription listener when you're finished with it
>     subscription.cancel();

Reviewer: A few changes to reduce overall line length:

```suggestion
private void createSubscription() {
    RxOperations.RxSubscriptionOperation<? extends GraphQLResponse<Comment>> subscription =
        RxAmplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"));
    subscription
        .observeConnectionState()
        .subscribe(connectionStateEvent -> 
            Log.i("MyAmplifyApp", String.valueOf(connectionStateEvent))
        );
    subscription
        .observeSubscriptionData()
        .subscribe(
            response -> {
                if (response.hasErrors()) {
                    Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.getErrors());
                } else if (!response.hasData()) {
                    Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment; no data in response.");
                } else {
                    Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Got comment from subscription: " + response.getData());
                }
            },
            failure -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription failed.", failure),
            () -> Log.i("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription completed.")
        );
    // Cancel the subscription listener when you're finished with it
    subscription.cancel();
}
```

Now you can create a custom subscription for comment creation with a specific post id:

<amplify-block-switcher>
<amplify-block name="Java">

```java
private GraphQLRequest<Comment> onCreateCommentByPostId(String id) {
    String document = "subscription onCreateCommentByPostId($id: ID!) { "
        + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: $id) { "
            + "content "
            + "id "
            + "postCommentsId "
        + "}"
    + "}";
    return new SimpleGraphQLRequest<>(
        document,
        Collections.singletonMap("id", id),
        Comment.class,
        new GsonVariablesSerializer()
    );
}
```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="Kotlin">

```kotlin

> private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment?>? {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment> {
```

}
```

</amplify-block>
</amplify-block-switcher>

To listen to creation updates with the specific post using the post id, you can use the following code sample:

<amplify-block-switcher>
<amplify-block name="Java">

```java
private void createSubscription() {
    Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"),
            subscriptionId -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription with id: " + subscriptionId), 
            response -> {
                if(response.hasErrors()) {
                    Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment: " + response.getErrors());
                } else if(!response.hasData()) {
                    Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Error receiving Comment, no data in response.");
                } else {
                    Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Successfully got comment from subscription: " + response.getData());
                }
            }, 
            exception -> Log.e("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription terminated with error: " + exception), 
            () -> Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Subscription has been closed successfully."));
}
```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="Kotlin">

```kotlin
private fun createSubscription() {

>     Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345")!!,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Amplify.API.subscribe(onCreateCommentByPostId("12345"),
```

        { Log.d("MyAmplifyApp", "Established subscription. id = $it") },

>         { response: GraphQLResponse<Comment?> ->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        { response: GraphQLResponse<Comment> ->
```

<amplify-block name="Java">

```java
private GraphQLRequest<Comment> onCreateCommentByPostId(String id) {
    String document = "subscription onCreateCommentByPostId($id: ID!) { "
        + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: $id) { "
            + "content "

>             + "createdAt "

Author: ```suggestion
```

            + "id "
            + "postCommentsId "

>             + "updatedAt "

Author: ```suggestion
```

        + "}"
    + "}";
    return new SimpleGraphQLRequest<>(
            document,
            Collections.singletonMap("id", id),
            Comment.class,
            new GsonVariablesSerializer());
}
```

</amplify-block>
<amplify-block name="Kotlin">

```kotlin
private fun onCreateCommentByPostId(id: String): GraphQLRequest<Comment?>? {
    val document = ("subscription onCreateCommentByPostId(\$id: ID!) { "
        + "onCommentByPostId(postCommentsId: \$id) { "
            + "content "

>             + "createdAt "

Author: ```suggestion
```

            + "id "
            + "postCommentsId "

>             + "updatedAt "

Author: ```suggestion
```
